-- Flow of Execution --
What
Control Trasfer
	Transition from one intruction to another
Control Flow
	Sequence of conition trasfers
What control flow results in a smooth flow of execution
	Sequencing
What control flow results in abrupt changes in the flow of execution
	Sequencing, repetition, cal-exec-ret

Exceptional control flow
	Execution must be able to react to events that are urgent/anomanous/exceptional
	Require special processing
Event
	Change in the processor's state
	That may or may not be related to the current instruction
Processor state
	Bits and signals inside the processor
==Example==
program
	Request I/O from OS (printf)
		Share info via a program's concurrent
		Software exception handling processes
OS
	Request I/O from hardware
		Deals with other hardware (request from processes
Hardware
	Device does I/O task and then interrupts to say its done
	
-- Exception -- 
What
	Is a nonlocal jump that abruptly changes the flow of execution as a result of some event	
	Sidesteps the usual stack flow of execution
	Can be from both hardware and software
Whats the difference between a synchronous vs an asychronous exception
Asynch
	Interrupts
		Events that is external to processes
		Can happen at any time
Synch
	Execption
		Events results from the current instruction
		Traps, Faults, Aborts
		
-- Exception Handling --
Exception Table
	On system boot OS allocates a jump table for exception handling

Indirect Function Call
	ETBR (Exception Table Base Register) == array base address
	Exception # == index 
	Address of exception handler == Element values
1) Push on to a stack the return address.
	Address might be Icurr or Inext
2) Push on to a stack the processor's state
	To enable restarting the current process
*for 1 and 2, if OS kernel takes control then they are pushed onto the kernel stack rather than that process's stack
3) Run the exception handler
	If kernel handler used then processor changes mode from user/protected to kernel/unprotected mode
	So it has access to all the system resources
	
-- Kinds of Exception --
1) Interrupts
	Provides a way for Hardware to notify the system that it needs attention
	Signal from external device
	Asynch
	returns to next instruction
	How?
		1. Pin on CPU is set to signal exception, Exception number is coded on system bus
		2. Current process finishes its intruction, control transfered to handler
		3. Interrupt handler runs
		4. Control is transfered back to original process and process continues as if nothing happened
	Vs. Polling
		Check device periodically - inefficient
			like checking your phone every 10 seconds
		Interrupts are better like phone ringing to signal it needs attention
2) Traps, aka System Call, aka Dupstep
	Enable processes to interact with OS
	Intentional exception
	Synch
	returns to next instruction
	How?
	1. App makes a system call indicating which service is needed by the sys call number
	2. Control transferes to handler and system call is done
	3. Control transferes back to original process starts next instruction and continues like a function return
3) Faults
	Handles problems with current instruction
	page vs seg faults
	Potentially recoverable error
	Synch
	Might return to current instruction and re-excecute it	
4) Aborts	
	Cleanly ends a process freeing its memeory
	nonrecoverable fatal error
		Corrupted memory
	synchronous
	dones't return
	
-- IA-32 & Linux --
-Exception Types
Each exception type is assigned a unique non-negative int
0-31 are defined by processor
	0 -> Divide by 0
	13 -> Protection fault - Linux  Seg Fault
	14 -> Page Fault
	18 -> Hardware error or Machine check
32-255 are defined by OS
	128 -> system call
-System Calls
convention
	System call number is placed in %eax
	other gen purpose registers used for arguments except for %esp
1. exit
2. fork
3. read
4. write
5.
6.
		
System Call Example

include <stdlit.h>
int main(){
	write(1, "hello World\n", 12);
	exit(0);
}

-- Processes --
What
Is an instance of a running program which at any point in time has a context
	Memory Segments - gets its own phyiscal pages
	CPU - registers - must be preserved when another process uses the CPU
	OS - open file descrtipor, page table, process table, maintains these for each process
Why
Provides key illusions that process excluseley uses
	1. The CPU - Independent logical control flow
	2. Memory - Virtual address space (VAS) as if each process is running by itself
Who is the illusionist
	OS virtualizes 	CPU, Memory, Devices
Concurrency
	AKA multitasking
	Overlapping execution of 2 or more processes
interleaved execution
	
parallel execution

-- User/Kernel Modes --
what?
	Are different privliedge levels a program can run at in the CPU
Kernel Mode: Can execute any instruction - Has CPU switch modes no I/O
Supervisor
	Can access any memory address
	Initates start in user mode
	switch to kernel mode only via an exception
	OS Handler can switch back since its in kernel mode
Kernel
	Memory resident part of OS
	Kernel address space can't be accessed by user process

-- Context --
What?
	Kernel maintains a (partial) context for each processs
	Everything the kernel needs to restart a pre-empted process
	Includes
		1. CPU State
		2. User's stack
		3. Kernel's Stack
		4. Kernel's data stack count
			a. Page table
			b. process table
			c. file table
Context Swtich
	Occurs during kernel exception as a result of some exception
	Enables the scheduler to run another process
	Enables the exceptions to be processed
1. Save context of current process
2. Restore context of some other process
3. Pass control to the restored process
*Context switches are expensive!!!
**Negative conflict due to causing cache pollution

Example
read()
1. In user mode process A requests to read from disk (trap)
2. Switched to kernel mode and run handler request DMA and interrupt when done
3. Reading from disk is slow
	Context switch to process B 
4. Swtich back to user mode and run process B
5. Disk interrupts - switch to kernel mode and run handler
6. Context Switch back to process A
7. Switch back to user mode and process A continues aftter read

-- Signals --
What?
	Is a small message sent to a destination process to notify it that some kind of system event occurred
	Linux has 30 signal types (% man 7 signals)
Why?
Informs user - level process about
	1. Low-level hardware exception
		Divide by 0 (exeception 0) -> exception handler -> signals SIGFPE (#8)
		Illegal memeory ref (exception 13) -> exception handler -> signals SIGSEGV (#11)
	2. High-level events in kernel (or user processes)
		typing ctrl+c -> keyboard interrupt -> exeception handler -> signals SIGINT (#2) of foreground process
Enables inter-process communication
Enables a high-level software form of exception control flow

